# TextMate Xtras for Xcode

## What is it?

This is a *fork* of excellent Ciar치n Walsh's Xcode plug-in which makes writing
Objective-C code easier, by automatically inserting paired message sending
brackets.

Watch [the screencast](http://ciaranwal.sh/files/xcode-bracket-matcher.mov) to
see how it works.

## What's new?

This *fork* adds *Xcode 4* support and some extra features that makes *Xcode*
editing feel more like *TextMate*:

* **Auto closing of brackets and quotes**

  When you open a bracket or (double)quote, the plugin closes it for you and
  places the cursor (insertion point) between brackets (quotes).

* **Auto deletion of both brackets**

  When the cursor (insertion point) is between empty brackets (quotes),
  pressing backspace (delete) removes them both.

* **`]` always wraps**

  Pressing `]` when there is something selected, wraps the selection with
  square brackets, rather than replacing whole selection with `]`.

* **Whitespace display:**

  This is well known *TextMate* feature I missed most in *Xcode*, now *Xcode*
  displays whitespaces (aka invisibles) with similar glyphs as *TextMate* using
  light-grey color.

* **Whitespace display**

  This is well known *TextMate* feature I missed most in *Xcode*, now *Xcode*
  displays whitespaces (aka invisibles) with similar glyphs as *TextMate* using
  light-grey color.

Original functionality:

* **Wrap on `]`**

  When editing an Objective-C(++) or Objective-J file, you can type a `]` to
  add a message to the current line. The plug-in will automatically look
  backwards to insert the opening bracket at the appropriate location.

## Installation

1. Open the project and build the plug-in.

2. After a successful build the plug-in should automatically be installed; to
install it manually move the product (`AMSXcodeTMXtras.xcplugin`) to
`~/Library/Application Support/Developer/Shared/Xcode/Plug-ins` (create the
directory if necessary).

3. Restart Xcode.

## Settings

All settings of this plugin are accessible via `defaults`. Restart should be
not required normally when changing these defaults.

Values shown here are the default built-in values.

* `defaults write -app Xcode AMSSpaceGlyph ""` (empty to hide)
* `defaults write -app Xcode AMSTabGlyph "\u254E"`  (empty to hide)
* `defaults write -app Xcode AMSReturnGlyph "\u00AC"`  (empty to hide)
* `defaults write -app Xcode AMSWhitespaceGray -float 0.6`
* `defaults write -app Xcode AMSWhitespaceAlpha -float 0.25`

## Credits

* **Joachim M친rtensson**

  The bracket placement logic (i.e. most of the hard work) was already done by
  Joachim M친rtensson for the Objective-C TextMate bundle, found here inside the
  `parser.rb` script.

## License

This software is provided under *MIT* license:

> Copyright (c) 2009 Ciar치n Walsh, 2010-2014 Adam Strzelecki
>
> Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
> of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
> in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
> to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
> copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
> furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
> all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
> THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
> IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
> FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
> AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
> LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
> OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
> SOFTWARE.
